As we saw there are many types of graphs but there are certain characteristics that allow us to describe
graphs.
Let's go over them.
One thing that you really want to get yourself familiar with is the idea of directed an on directed
graph.
These types of graphs are useful for describing traffic flow for example of some kind of a system in
which movement is not bi directional.
That means like here where I can go back and forth between notes I can only go in one direction.
A good way to think about on a directed graph is to think of as a highway between two cities where you
can go back and forth on the other hand directed will be a one way street where you can only go one
way.
Another way to think about it is Facebook what kind of graph do you think Facebook has.
Well it has an on directed graph because when I'm connected to a friend that friend is also connected
to me it's not one way.
What about Twitter.
Twitter is more directed because if I have my profile people can follow me and I can follow people.
But if somebody follows me I don't automatically follow them.
So Twitter is more directed another way to describe graphs is the idea of weighted graphs on waited
and waited graphs and as you can see from the images values can be applied to various aspects of a graph.
Not just the notes remember the notes can carry any type of information but with graphs you can also
have information in the edges and the connections maybe you're going on a trip and trying to figure
out the most efficient way to visit sites that interest you.
Well in that case Google Maps would use a weighted graph to decide what is the shortest path for you
to get there and these sort of graphs are used a lot in calculating optimal paths the fastest way to
get to let's say 1 to 6.
Lastly another way to describe graph is cyclic or acyclic when you have vertices connected in a circular
fashion.
It's called a cycle when you can go from one node to another to another and then back to that original
node versus acyclic where you can do that and C-code graphs are really common.
An especially weighted graphs such as Google maps because most of the time there is a way to get back.
So now that we understand a few ways to describe graphs Let me show you my favorite graph of all time.
This is my favorite graph.
It's by the opti project and it is a partial map of the Internet.
If you look here you see that we have IP addresses connecting to IP addresses.
And these are all nodes connected to create the internet.
Pretty spectacular right.
That is the best example of a graph.
So now that we understand or at least have a basic understanding of graphs let's do a nice fun exercise.